Maruf Rayhan
Tampere, Finland | (358) 041-3111797 | Email: maruf.rayhan14@gmail.com
LinkedIn Profile: linkedin.com/in/md-maruf-rayhan | GitHub: github.com/MarufRayhan
Website: www.marufrayhan.com

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
Software Developer with 4+ years of experience in modern web development. Strong expertise in
React, Python, Next.js, TypeScript, Node.js, and Cloud Services (AWS/Azure). Demonstrated ability
to develop user-friendly applications and optimize performance across platforms.

SKILLS
●​ Programming Languages: JavaScript (4+ years), TypeScript (2+ years), Python (4+ years)
●​ Frontend Development: React.js (3+ years), Redux (3+ years), Next.js (2+ years),
CSS/SCSS (3+ years), UI/UX Design, Web Technologies, Figma
●​ Backend Development: Node.js (3+ years), Express.js (2´+ years), FastAPI, RESTful APIs,
SQLDatabases
●​ Software Testing: Manual testing, Unit testing, Automated Testing,
●​ Artificial Intelligence: LLM, Rag, Tensorflow, ´Keras, Matplotlib, Pandas
●​ Cloud & DevOps: AWS (S3, Lambda), Docker, CI/CD
●​ Additional Skills: Git, Atlassian Jira, Cross-Platform Development, Team Collaboration
●​ Languages: English (Fluent, IELTS: 7)

WORK EXPERIENCE
Future Automation Systems and Technologies Lab- FAST, Tampere, Finland
Full Stack Software Developer and Researcher— 03/2024 - Present
●​ Leading the development of an EU-funded collaborative education streaming data platform,
overseeing partnerships with 25 global collaborators across 12 countries to establish a
centralized learning hub.
●​ Architected and implemented a real-time learning management system
(https://www.ai-prism.dev/) with scalable data pipelines using Next.js, TypeScript, and AWS
(S3, Lambda). Designed streaming data workflows processing of educational content,
implemented Docker-based microservices for consistent deployment, and built REST APIs to
ensure data quality across development and production environments.
●​ Successfully leading a team of 3 developers to integrate Large Language Models for
automated document generation and organization, streamlining the process of creating and
managing documentation by 60%.
GPT Lab, Tampere, Finland
Research Assistant — 06/2023 - 09/2023
●​ Developed an innovative system for AI agent collaboration, establishing one of the first
implementations where AI agents work together on software engineering tasks.
●​ Authored and collaborated on research with Austrian Post Group IT, introducing an
Autonomous LLM-based Agent System (ALAS) that improved the quality of thousands of user
stories across 6 agile teams, driving real-world adoption and operational efficiency.

●​ Independently designed and developed the lab's website (gpt-lab.eu) from scratch, while
implementing comprehensive branding strategy across LinkedIn and X (Twitter) to establish
GPT Lab's digital presence.
Tampere University, Tampere, Finland
Teaching Assistant — 06/2023 - 12/2024
●​ Mentored and guided 120+ computer science students every year in Software Design and
Requirement Engineering course, assessing projects, and delivering detailed feedback on
architecture patterns, SOLID principles, design systems and requirements analysis.
BJIT Limited, Dhaka, Bangladesh
Software Engineer — 01/2019 - 07/2022
●​ Developed and optimized multiple React.js applications including a restaurant management
system, NFT marketplace, and CV sorting system
●​ Managed internal project with efficient, maintainable, and scalable code
●​ Implemented Node.js backend services with TypeScript for performance and type safety
●​ Utilized Docker and CI/CD pipelines for streamlined deployment and testing
●​ Led cross-functional collaboration and demonstrated strong communication skill as product
owner for a Japanese NFT marketplace, coordinating with international stakeholders

Education
Tampere University, Tampere, Finland
MSc in Software, Web and Cloud — 08/2022 - 12/2024
Thesis: Developing an AI-driven network suite: Leveraging LLMs for automated document
processing and generation
American International University Bangladesh(AIUB), Dhaka, Bangladesh
BSc in Computer Science and Engineering — 05/2014 - 02/2018
Coursework: Data Structure (DS), Algorithm

CERTIFICATIONS
●​ Professional Scrum Master™ I (PSM I) (Issued by Scrum.org, December 16, 2021)
●​ Microsoft Azure fundamental (Issued by Microsoft, September 16, 2025)


AWARDS
●​ Magna Cum Laude BSc Academic award based on criteria - Between CGPA 3.85 - 3.94 /4.00
●​ DEAN’S LIST HONORS Two times AIUB Dean’s List and Dean’s Honorable Mention Award for
successfully earning a grade point average (GPA) 3.90/4.00.

HOBBIES
I like to play Fifa, plyaing soccer and learn more about Technologies

PERSONAL LIFE
I born and brought up in Rangpur, Bangladesh. My school was Rangpur Zilla school where I studeied my secondary certification.
My college was Rangpur Canotonment Public School and College, I had My Higher Secondary certification. In both my School
and College I graduated with highest degree securing A+ in all the subjects. I am by born Muslim. My favorite player is 
Lionel Messi. My dream is to be a CTO of any renowned company. 